
                           amanda.conf
Prev  Chapter 36. The Amanda Manual Pages.  Next

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name

amanda.conf  Main configuration file for Amanda, the Advanced Maryland
Automatic Network Disk Archiver

DESCRIPTION

amanda.conf is the main configuration file for Amanda. This manpage lists the
relevant sections and parameters of this file for quick reference.
The file <CONFIG_DIR>/<config>/amanda.conf is loaded.

PARAMETERS

There are a number of configuration parameters that control the behavior of the
Amanda programs. All have default values, so you need not specify the parameter
in amanda.conf if the default is suitable.
Lines starting with # are ignored, as are blank lines. Comments may be placed
on a line with a directive by starting the comment with a #. The remainder of
the line is ignored.
Keywords are case insensitive, i.e. mailto and MailTo are treated the same.
Integer arguments may have one of the following (case insensitive) suffixes,
some of which have a multiplier effect:

POSSIBLE SUFFIXES



  b byte bytes
      Some number of bytes.

  bps
      Some number of bytes per second.

  k kb kbyte kbytes kilobyte kilobytes
      Some number of kilobytes (bytes*1024).

  kps kbps
      Some number of kilobytes per second (bytes*1024).

  m mb meg mbyte mbytes megabyte megabytes
      Some number of megabytes (bytes*1024*1024).

  mps mbps
      Some number of megabytes per second (bytes*1024*1024).

  g gb gbyte gbytes gigabyte gigabytes
      Some number of gigabytes (bytes*1024*1024*1024).

  tape tapes
      Some number of tapes.

  day days
      Some number of days.

  week weeks
      Some number of weeks (days*7).

      Note

      The value inf may be used in most places where an integer is expected to
      mean an infinite amount.
      Boolean arguments may have any of the values y, yes, t, true or on to
      indicate a true state, or n, no, f, false or off to indicate a false
      state. If no argument is given, true is assumed.


PARAMETERS



  org string
      Default: daily. A descriptive name for the configuration. This string
      appears in the Subject line of mail reports. Each Amanda configuration
      should have a different string to keep mail reports distinct.

  mailto string
      Default: operators. A space separated list of recipients for mail
      reports.

  dumpcycle int
      Default: 10 days. The number of days in the backup cycle. Each disk will
      get a full backup at least this often. Setting this to zero tries to do a
      full backup each run.

      Note

      This parameter may also be set in a specific dumptype (see below). This
      value sets the default for all dumptypes so must appear in amanda.conf
      before any dumptypes are defined.

  runspercycle int
      Default: same as dumpcycle. The number of amdump runs in dumpcycle days.
      A value of 0 means the same value as dumpcycle. A value of -1 means guess
      the number of runs from the tapelist file, which is the number of tapes
      used in the last dumpcycle days / runtapes.

  tapecycle int
      Default: 15 tapes. Typically tapes are used by Amanda in an ordered
      rotation. The tapecycle parameter defines the size of that rotation. The
      number of tapes in rotation must be larger than the number of tapes
      required for a complete dump cycle (see the dumpcycle parameter).
      This is calculated by multiplying the number of amdump runs per dump
      cycle (runspercycle parameter) times the number of tapes used per run
      (runtapes parameter). Typically two to four times this calculated number
      of tapes are in rotation. While Amanda is always willing to use a new
      tape in its rotation, it refuses to reuse a tape until at least
      'tapecycle -1' number of other tapes have been used.
      It is considered good administrative practice to set the tapecycle
      parameter slightly lower than the actual number of tapes in rotation.
      This allows the administrator to more easily cope with damaged or
      misplaced tapes or schedule adjustments that call for slight adjustments
      in the rotation order.

  usetimestamps bool
      Default: No. By default, Amanda can only track at most one run per
      calendar day. When this option is enabled, however, Amanda can track as
      many runs as you care to make.
      WARNING: This option is not backward-compatible. Do not enable it if you
      intend to downgrade your server installation to Amanda community edition
      2.5.0

  label_new_tapes string
      Default: not set. When set, this directive will cause Amanda to
      automatically write an Amanda tape label to any blank tape she
      encounters. This option is DANGEROUS because when set, Amanda will ERASE
      any non-Amanda tapes you may have, and may also ERASE any near-failing
      tapes. Use with caution.
      When using this directive, specify the template for new tape labels. The
      template should contain some number of contiguous '%' characters, which
      will be replaced with a generated number. Be sure to specify enough '%'
      characters that you do not run out of tape labels. Example:
      label_new_tapes "DailySet1-%%%"

  dumpuser string
      Default: amanda. The login name Amanda uses to run the backups. The
      backup client hosts must allow access from the tape server host as this
      user via .rhosts or .amandahosts, depending on how the Amanda software
      was built.

  printer string
      Printer to use when doing tape labels. See the lbl-templ tapetype option.

  tapedev string
      Default: null:. The path name of the non-rewinding tape device. Non-
      rewinding tape device names often have an 'n' in the name, e.g. /dev/rmt/
      0mn, however this is operating system specific and you should consult
      that documentation for detailed naming information.
      If a tape changer is configured (see the tpchanger option), this option
      might not be used.
      If the null output driver is selected (see the section OUTPUT DRIVERS in
      the amanda(8) manpage for more information), programs such as amdump will
      run normally but all images will be thrown away. This should only be used
      for debugging and testing, and probably only with the record option set
      to no.

  rawtapedev string
      Default: null:. The path name of the raw tape device. This is only used
      if Amanda is compiled for Linux machines with floppy tapes and is needed
      for QIC volume table operations.

  tpchanger string
      Default: none. The name of the tape changer. If a tape changer is not
      configured, this option is not used and should be commented out of the
      configuration file.
      If a tape changer is configured, choose one of the changer scripts (e.g.
      chg-scsi) and enter that here.

  changerdev string
      Default: /dev/null. A tape changer configuration parameter. Usage depends
      on the particular changer defined with the tpchanger option.

  changerfile string
      Default: /usr/adm/amanda/log/changer-status. A tape changer configuration
      parameter. Usage depends on the particular changer defined with the
      tpchanger option.

  runtapes int
      Default: 1. The maximum number of tapes used in a single run. If a tape
      changer is not configured, this option is not used and should be
      commented out of the configuration file.
      If a tape changer is configured, this may be set larger than one to let
      Amanda write to more than one tape.
      Note that this is an upper bound on the number of tapes, and Amanda may
      use less.
      Also note that as of this release, Amanda does not support true tape
      overflow. When it reaches the end of one tape, the backup image Amanda
      was processing starts over again on the next tape.

  maxdumpsize int
      Default: runtapes*tape_length. Maximum number of bytes the planner will
      schedule for a run.

  taperalgo [first|firstfit|largest|largestfit|smallest|last]
      Default: first. The algorithm used to choose which dump image to send to
      the taper.


        first
            First in, first out.

        firstfit
            The first dump image that will fit on the current tape.

        largest
            The largest dump image.

        largestfit
            The largest dump image that will fit on the current tape.

        smallest
            The smallest dump image.

        last
            Last in, first out.


  labelstr string
      Default: .*. The tape label constraint regular expression. All tape
      labels generated (see amlabel(8)) and used by this configuration must
      match the regular expression. If multiple configurations are run from the
      same tape server host, it is helpful to set their labels to different
      strings (for example, "DAILY[0-9][0-9]*" vs. "ARCHIVE[0-9][0-9]*") to
      avoid overwriting each other's tapes.

  tapetype string
      Default: EXABYTE. The type of tape drive associated with tapedev or
      tpchanger. This refers to one of the defined tapetypes in the config file
      (see below), which specify various tape parameters, like the length,
      filemark size, and speed of the tape media and device.
      First character of a tapetype string must be an alphabetic character

  ctimeout int
      Default: 30 seconds. Maximum amount of time that amcheck will wait for
      each client host.

  dtimeout int
      Default: 1800 seconds. Amount of idle time per disk on a given client
      that a dumper running from within amdump will wait before it fails with a
      data timeout error.

  etimeout int
      Default: 300 seconds. Amount of time per disk on a given client that the
      planner step of amdump will wait to get the dump size estimates. For
      instance, with the default of 300 seconds and four disks on client A,
      planner will wait up to 20 minutes for that machine. A negative value
      will be interpreted as a total amount of time to wait per client instead
      of per disk.

  connect_tries int
      Default: 3. How many times the server will try a connection.

  req_tries int
      Default: 3. How many times the server will resend a REQ packet if it
      doesn't get the ACK packet.

  netusage int
      Default: 300 Kbps. The maximum network bandwidth allocated to Amanda, in
      Kbytes per second. See also the interface section.

  inparallel int
      Default: 10. The maximum number of backups that Amanda will attempt to
      run in parallel. Amanda will stay within the constraints of network
      bandwidth and holding disk space available, so it doesn't hurt to set
      this number a bit high. Some contention can occur with larger numbers of
      backups, but this effect is relatively small on most systems.

  displayunit "k|m|g|t"
      Default: "k". The unit used to print many numbers, k=kilo, m=mega,
      g=giga, t=tera.

  dumporder string
      Default: tttTTTTTTT. The priority order of each dumper:

        s: smallest size
        S: largest size
        t: smallest time
        T: largest time
        b: smallest bandwidth
        B: largest bandwidth


  maxdumps int
      Default: 1. The maximum number of backups from a single host that Amanda
      will attempt to run in parallel. See also the inparallel option.
      Note that this parameter may also be set in a specific dumptype (see
      below). This value sets the default for all dumptypes so must appear in
      amanda.conf before any dumptypes are defined.

  bumpsize int
      Default: 10 Mbytes. The minimum savings required to trigger an automatic
      bump from one incremental level to the next, expressed as size. If Amanda
      determines that the next higher backup level will be this much smaller
      than the current level, it will do the next level. The value of this
      parameter is used only if the parameter bumppercent is set to 0.
      The global setting of this parameter can be overwritten inside of a
      dumptype-definition.
      See also the options bumppercent, bumpmult and bumpdays.

  bumppercent int
      Default: 0 percent. The minimum savings required to trigger an automatic
      bump from one incremental level to the next, expressed as percentage of
      the current size of the DLE (size of current level 0). If Amanda
      determines that the next higher backup level will be this much smaller
      than the current level, it will do the next level.
      If this parameter is set to 0, the value of the parameter bumpsize is
      used to trigger bumping.
      The global setting of this parameter can be overwritten inside of a
      dumptype-definition.
      See also the options bumpsize, bumpmult and bumpdays.

  bumpmult float
      Default: 1.5. The bump size multiplier. Amanda multiplies bumpsize by
      this factor for each level. This prevents active filesystems from bumping
      too much by making it harder to bump to the next level. For example, with
      the default bumpsize and bumpmult set to 2.0, the bump threshold will be
      10 Mbytes for level one, 20 Mbytes for level two, 40 Mbytes for level
      three, and so on.
      The global setting of this parameter can be overwritten inside of a
      dumptype-definition.

  bumpdays int
      Default: 2 days. To insure redundancy in the dumps, Amanda keeps
      filesystems at the same incremental level for at least bumpdays days,
      even if the other bump threshold criteria are met.
      The global setting of this parameter can be overwritten inside of a
      dumptype-definition.

  diskfile string
      Default: disklist. The file name for the disklist file holding client
      hosts, disks and other client dumping information.

  infofile string
      Default: /usr/adm/amanda/curinfo. The file or directory name for the
      historical information database. If Amanda was configured to use DBM
      databases, this is the base file name for them. If it was configured to
      use text formated databases (the default), this is the base directory and
      within here will be a directory per client, then a directory per disk,
      then a text file of data.

  logdir string
      Default: /usr/adm/amanda. The directory for the amdump and log files.

  indexdir string
      Default /usr/adm/amanda/index. The directory where index files (backup
      image catalogues) are stored. Index files are only generated for
      filesystems whose dumptype has the index option enabled.

  tapelist string
      Default: tapelist. The file name for the active tapelist file. Amanda
      maintains this file with information about the active set of tapes.

  tapebufs int
      Default: 20. The number of buffers used by the taper process run by
      amdump and amflush to hold data as it is read from the network or disk
      before it is written to tape. Each buffer is a little larger than 32
      KBytes and is held in a shared memory region.

  reserve number
      Default: 100. The part of holding-disk space that should be reserved for
      incremental backups if no tape is available, expressed as a percentage of
      the available holding-disk space (0-100). By default, when there is no
      tape to write to, degraded mode (incremental) backups will be performed
      to the holding disk. If full backups should also be allowed in this case,
      the amount of holding disk space reserved for incrementals should be
      lowered.

  autoflush bool
      Default: off. Whether an amdump run will flush the dumps from holding
      disk to tape.

  amrecover_do_fsf bool
      Default: on. Amrecover will call amrestore with the -f flag for faster
      positioning of the tape.

  amrecover_check_label bool
      Default: on. Amrecover will call amrestore with the -l flag to check the
      label.

  amrecover_changer string
      Default: ''. Amrecover will use the changer if you use 'settape <string>'
      and that string is the same as the amrecover_changer setting.

  columnspec string
      Defines the width of columns amreport should use. String is a comma (',')
      separated list of triples. Each triple consists of three parts which are
      separated by a equal sign ('=') and a colon (':') (see the example).
      These three parts specify:

        1. the name of the column, which may be:

             	Compress (compression ratio)
             	Disk (client disk name)
             	DumpRate (dump rate in KBytes/sec)
             	DumpTime (total dump time in hours:minutes)
             	HostName (client host name)
             	Level (dump level)
             	OrigKB (original image size in KBytes)
             	OutKB (output image size in KBytes)
             	TapeRate (tape writing rate in KBytes/sec)
             	TapeTime (total tape time in hours:minutes)
             	

        2. the amount of space to display before the column (used to get
           whitespace between columns).
        3. the width of the column itself. If set to a negative value, the
           width will be calculated on demand to fit the largest entry in this
           column.

      Here is an example:

        columnspec "Disk=1:18,HostName=0:10,OutKB=1:7"

      The above will display the disk information in 18 characters and put one
      space before it. The hostname column will be 10 characters wide with no
      space to the left. The output KBytes column is seven characters wide with
      one space before it.

  includefile string
      Default: none. The name of an Amanda configuration file to include within
      the current file. Useful for sharing dumptypes, tapetypes and interface
      definitions among several configurations.

  debug_auth int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the auth module

  debug_event int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the event module

  debug_holding int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the holdingdisk module

  debug_protocol int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the protocol module

  debug_planner int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the planner process

  debug_driver int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the driver process

  debug_dumper int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the dumper process

  debug_chunker int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the chunker process

  debug_taper int
      Default: 0. Debug level of the taper process

  reserved-udp-port int,int
      Default: --with-udpportrange or 512,1023. Reserved udp port that will be
      used (bsd, bsdudp)

  reserved-tcp-port int,int
      Default: --with-low-tcpportrange or 512,1023. Reserved tcp port that will
      be used (bsdtcp)

  unreserved-tcp-port int,int
      Default: --with-tcpportrange or 1025,65536. Unreserved tcp port that will
      be used (bsd, bsdudp)


HOLDINGDISK SECTION

The amanda.conf file may define one or more holding disks used as buffers to
hold backup images before they are written to tape. The syntax is:

  holdingdisk name {
      holdingdisk-option holdingdisk-value
      ...
  }

Name is a logical name for this holding disk.
The options and values are:


  comment string
      Default: none. A comment string describing this holding disk.

  directory disk
      Default: /dumps/amanda. The path to this holding area.

  use int
      Default: 0 Gb. Amount of space that can be used in this holding disk
      area. If the value is zero, all available space on the file system is
      used. If the value is negative, Amanda will use all available space minus
      that value.

  chunksize int
      Default: 1 Gb. Holding disk chunk size. Dumps larger than the specified
      size will be stored in multiple holding disk files. The size of each
      chunk will not exceed the specified value. However, even though dump
      images are split in the holding disk, they are concatenated as they are
      written to tape, so each dump image still corresponds to a single
      continuous tape section.
      If 0 is specified, Amanda will create holding disk chunks as large as (
      (INT_MAX/1024)-64) Kbytes.
      Each holding disk chunk includes a 32 Kbyte header, so the minimum chunk
      size is 64 Kbytes (but that would be really silly).
      Operating systems that are limited to a maximum file size of 2 Gbytes
      actually cannot handle files that large. They must be at least one byte
      less than 2 Gbytes. Since Amanda works with 32 Kbyte blocks, and to
      handle the final read at the end of the chunk, the chunk size should be
      at least 64 Kbytes (2 * 32 Kbytes) smaller than the maximum file size,
      e.g. 2047 Mbytes.


DUMPTYPE SECTION

The amanda.conf file may define multiple sets of backup options and refer to
them by name from the disklist file. For instance, one set of options might be
defined for file systems that can benefit from high compression, another set
that does not compress well, another set for file systems that should always
get a full backup and so on.
A set of backup options are entered in a dumptype section, which looks like
this:

  define dumptype name {
      dumptype-option dumptype-value
      ...
  }

Name is the name of this set of backup options. It is referenced from the
disklist file.
Some of the options in a dumptype section are the same as those in the main
part of amanda.conf. The main option value is used to set the default for all
dumptype sections. For instance, setting dumpcycle to 50 in the main part of
the config file causes all following dumptype sections to start with that
value, but the value may be changed on a section by section basis. Changes to
variables in the main part of the config file must be done before (earlier in
the file) any dumptypes are defined.
The dumptype options and values are:


  auth string
      Default: bsd. Type of authorization to perform between tape server and
      backup client hosts.
      bsd, bsd authorization with udp initial connection and one tcp connection
      by data stream.
      bsdtcp, bsd authorization but use only one tcp connection.
      bsdudp, like bsd, but will use only one tcp connection for all data
      stream.
      krb4 to use Kerberos-IV authorization.
      krb5 to use Kerberos-V authorization.
      rsh to use rsh authorization.
      ssh to use OpenSSH authorization.

  amandad_path string
      Default: $libexec/amandad. Specify the amandad path of the client, only
      use with rsh/ssh authentification.

  client_username string
      Default: CLIENT_LOGIN. Specify the username to connect on the client,
      only use with rsh/ssh authentification.

  bumpsize int
      Default: 10 Mbytes. The minimum savings required to trigger an automatic
      bump from one incremental level to the next, expressed as size. If Amanda
      determines that the next higher backup level will be this much smaller
      than the current level, it will do the next level. The value of this
      parameter is used only if the parameter bumppercent is set to 0.
      See also the options bumppercent, bumpmult and bumpdays.

  bumppercent int
      Default: 0 percent. The minimum savings required to trigger an automatic
      bump from one incremental level to the next, expressed as percentage of
      the current size of the DLE (size of current level 0). If Amanda
      determines that the next higher backup level will be this much smaller
      than the current level, it will do the next level.
      If this parameter is set to 0, the value of the parameter bumpsize is
      used to trigger bumping.
      See also the options bumpsize, bumpmult and bumpdays.

  bumpmult float
      Default: 1.5. The bump size multiplier. Amanda multiplies bumpsize by
      this factor for each level. This prevents active filesystems from bumping
      too much by making it harder to bump to the next level. For example, with
      the default bumpsize and bumpmult set to 2.0, the bump threshold will be
      10 Mbytes for level one, 20 Mbytes for level two, 40 Mbytes for level
      three, and so on.

  bumpdays int
      Default: 2 days. To insure redundancy in the dumps, Amanda keeps
      filesystems at the same incremental level for at least bumpdays days,
      even if the other bump threshold criteria are met.

  comment string
      Default: none. A comment string describing this set of backup options.

  comprate float [, float ]
      Default: 0.50, 0.50. The expected full and incremental compression factor
      for dumps. It is only used if Amanda does not have any history
      information on compression rates for a filesystem, so should not usually
      need to be set. However, it may be useful for the first time a very large
      filesystem that compresses very little is backed up.

  compress [client|server] string
      Default: client fast. If Amanda does compression of the backup images, it
      can do so either on the backup client host before it crosses the network
      or on the tape server host as it goes from the network into the holding
      disk or to tape. Which place to do compression (if at all) depends on how
      well the dump image usually compresses, the speed and load on the client
      or server, network capacity, holding disk capacity, availability of tape
      hardware compression, etc.
      For either type of compression, Amanda also allows the selection of three
      styles of compression. Best is the best compression available, often at
      the expense of CPU overhead. Fast is often not as good a compression as
      best, but usually less CPU overhead. Or to specify Custom to use your own
      compression method. (See dumptype custom-compress in example/amanda.conf
      for reference)
      So the compress options line may be one of:


        compress none

        compress client fast

        compress client best

        compress client custom
            Specify client_custom_compress "PROG"
            PROG must not contain white space and it must accept -d for
            uncompress.

        compress server fast

        compress server best

        compress server custom
            Specify server_custom_compress "PROG"
            PROG must not contain white space and it must accept -d for
            uncompress.

      Note that some tape devices do compression and this option has nothing to
      do with whether that is used. If hardware compression is used (usually
      via a particular tape device name or mt option), Amanda (software)
      compression should be disabled.

  dumpcycle int
      Default: 10 days. The number of days in the backup cycle. Each disk using
      this set of options will get a full backup at least this of ten. Setting
      this to zero tries to do a full backup each run.

  encrypt [none|client|server]
      Default: none. To encrypt backup images, it can do so either on the
      backup client host before it crosses the network or on the tape server
      host as it goes from the network into the holding disk or to tape.
      So the encrypt options line may be one of:


        encrypt none

        encrypt client
            Specify client_encrypt "PROG"
            PROG must not contain white space.
            Specify client_decrypt_option "decryption-parameter" Default: "-d"
            decryption-parameter must not contain white space.
            (See dumptype server-encrypt-fast in example/amanda.conf for
            reference)

        encrypt server
            Specify server_encrypt "PROG"
            PROG must not contain white space.
            Specify server_decrypt_option "decryption-parameter" Default: "-d"
            decryption-parameter must not contain white space.
            (See dumptype client-encrypt-nocomp in example/amanda.conf for
            reference)

      Note that current logic assumes compression then encryption during backup
      (thus decrypt then uncompress during restore). So specifying client-
      encryption AND server-compression is not supported. amcrypt which is a
      wrapper of aespipe is provided as a reference symmetric encryption
      program.

  estimate client|calcsize|server
      Default: client. Determine the way Amanda does it's estimate.


        client
            Use the same program as the dumping program, this is the most
            accurate way to do estimates, but it can take a long time.

        calcsize
            Use a faster program to do estimates, but the result is less
            accurate.

        server
            Use only statistics from the previous run to give an estimate, it
            takes only a few seconds but the result is not accurate if your
            disk usage changes from day to day.


  exclude [ list|file ][[optional][ append ][ string ]+]
      Default: file. There are two exclude lists, exclude file and exclude
      list. With exclude file , the string is a GNU-tar exclude expression.
      With exclude list , the string is a file name on the client containing
      GNU-tar exclude expressions. The path to the specified exclude list file,
      if present (see description of 'optional' below), must be readable by the
      Amanda user.
      All exclude expressions are concatenated in one file and passed to GNU-
      tar as an --exclude-from argument.
      Exclude expressions must always be specified as relative to the head
      directory of the DLE.
      With the append keyword, the string is appended to the current list,
      without it, the string overwrites the list.
      If optional is specified for exclude list, then amcheck will not complain
      if the file doesn't exist or is not readable.
      For exclude list, if the file name is relative, the disk name being
      backed up is prepended. So if this is entered:

            exclude list ".amanda.excludes"

      the actual file used would be /var/.amanda.excludes for a backup of /var,
      /usr/local/.amanda.excludes for a backup of /usr/local, and so on.

  holdingdisk [ never|auto|required ]
      Default: auto. Whether a holding disk should be used for these backups or
      whether they should go directly to tape. If the holding disk is a portion
      of another file system that Amanda is backing up, that file system should
      refer to a dumptype with holdingdisk set to never to avoid backing up the
      holding disk into itself.


        never|no|false|off
            Never use a holdingdisk, the dump will always go directly to tape.
            There will be no dump if you have a tape error.

        auto|yes|true|on
            Use the holding disk, unless there is a problem with the holding
            disk, the dump won't fit there or the medium doesn't require
            spooling (e.g., VFS device)

        required
            Always dump to holdingdisk, never directly to tape. There will be
            no dump if it doesn't fit on holdingdisk


  ignore boolean
      Default: no. Whether disks associated with this backup type should be
      backed up or not. This option is useful when the disklist file is shared
      among several configurations, some of which should not back up all the
      listed file systems.

  include [ list|file ][[optional][ append ][ string ]+]
      Default: file ".". There are two include lists, include file and include
      list. With include file , the string is a glob expression. With include
      list , the string is a file name on the client containing glob
      expressions.
      All include expressions are expanded by Amanda, concatenated in one file
      and passed to GNU-tar as a --files-from argument. They must start with
      "./" and contain no other "/".
      Include expressions must always be specified as relative to the head
      directory of the DLE.

      Note

      For globbing to work at all, even the limited single level, the top level
      directory of the DLE must be readable by the Amanda user.
      With the append keyword, the string is appended to the current list,
      without it, the string overwrites the list.
      If optional is specified for include list, then amcheck will not complain
      if the file doesn't exist or is not readable.
      For include list, If the file name is relative, the disk name being
      backed up is prepended.

  index boolean
      Default: no. Whether an index (catalogue) of the backup should be
      generated and saved in indexdir. These catalogues are used by the
      amrecover utility.

  kencrypt boolean
      Default: no. Whether the backup image should be encrypted by Kerberos as
      it is sent across the network from the backup client host to the tape
      server host.

  maxdumps int
      Default: 1. The maximum number of backups from a single host that Amanda
      will attempt to run in parallel. See also the main section parameter
      inparallel.

  maxpromoteday int
      Default: 10000. The maximum number of day for a promotion, set it 0 if
      you don't want promotion, set it to 1 or 2 if your disks get
      overpromoted.

  priority string
      Default: medium. When there is no tape to write to, Amanda will do
      incremental backups in priority order to the holding disk. The priority
      may be high (2), medium (1), low (0) or a number of your choice.

  program string
      Default: DUMP. The type of backup to perform. Valid values are DUMP for
      the native operating system backup program, and GNUTAR to use GNU-tar or
      to do PC backups using Samba.

  record boolean
      Default: yes. Whether to ask the backup program to update its database
      (e.g. /etc/dumpdates for DUMP or /usr/local/var/amanda/gnutar-lists for
      GNUTAR) of time stamps. This is normally enabled for daily backups and
      turned off for periodic archival runs.

  skip-full boolean
      Default: no. If true and planner has scheduled a full backup, these disks
      will be skipped, and full backups should be run off-line on these days.
      It was reported that Amanda only schedules level 1 incrementals in this
      configuration; this is probably a bug.

  skip-incr boolean
      Default: no. If true and planner has scheduled an incremental backup,
      these disks will be skipped.

  starttime int
      Default: none. Backups will not start until after this time of day. The
      value should be hh*100+mm, e.g. 6:30PM (18:30) would be entered as 1830.

  strategy string
      Default: standard. Strategy to use when planning what level of backup to
      run next. Values are:


        standard
            The standard Amanda schedule.

        nofull
            Never do full backups, only level 1 incrementals.

        noinc
            Never do incremental backups, only full dumps.

        skip
            Never do backups (useful when sharing the disklist file).

        incronly
            Only do incremental dumps. amadmin force should be used to tell
            Amanda that a full dump has been performed off-line, so that it
            resets to level 1. It is similar to skip-full, but with incronly
            full dumps may be scheduled manually. Unfortunately, it appears
            that Amanda will perform full backups with this configuration,
            which is probably a bug.


  tape_splitsize int
      Default: none. Split dump file on tape into pieces of a specified size.
      This allows dumps to be spread across multiple tapes, and can potentially
      make more efficient use of tape space. Note that if this value is too
      large (more than half the size of the average dump being split),
      substantial tape space can be wasted. If too small, large dumps will be
      split into innumerable tiny dumpfiles, adding to restoration complexity.
      A good rule of thumb, usually, is 1/10 of the size of your tape.

  split_diskbuffer string
      Default: none. When dumping a split dump in PORT-WRITE mode (usually
      meaning "no holding disk"), buffer the split chunks to a file in the
      directory specified by this option.

  fallback_splitsize int
      Default: 10M. When dumping a split dump in PORT-WRITE mode, if no
      split_diskbuffer is specified (or if we somehow fail to use our
      split_diskbuffer), we must buffer split chunks in memory. This specifies
      the maximum size split chunks can be in this scenario, and thus the
      maximum amount of memory consumed for in-memory splitting. The size of
      this buffer can be changed from its (very conservative) default to a
      value reflecting the amount of memory that each taper process on the dump
      server may reasonably consume.

The following dumptype entries are predefined by Amanda:

  define dumptype no-compress {
      compress none
  }
  define dumptype compress-fast {
      compress client fast
  }
  define dumptype compress-best {
      compress client best
  }
  define dumptype srvcompress {
      compress server fast
  }
  define dumptype bsd-auth {
      auth bsd
  }
  define dumptype krb4-auth {
      auth krb4
  }
  define dumptype no-record {
      record no
  }
  define dumptype no-hold {
      holdingdisk no
  }
  define dumptype no-full {
      skip-full yes
  }

In addition to options in a dumptype section, one or more other dumptype names
may be entered, which make this dumptype inherit options from other previously
defined dumptypes. For instance, two sections might be the same except for the
record option:

  define dumptype normal {
      comment "Normal backup, no compression, do indexing"
      no-compress
      index yes
      maxdumps 2
  }
  define dumptype testing {
      comment "Test backup, no compression, do indexing, no recording"
      normal
      record no
  }

Amanda provides a dumptype named global in the sample amanda.conf file that all
dumptypes should reference. This provides an easy place to make changes that
will affect every dumptype.

TAPETYPE SECTION

The amanda.conf file may define multiple types of tape media and devices. The
information is entered in a tapetype section, which looks like this in the
config file:

  define tapetype name {
      tapetype-option tapetype-value
      ...
  }

Name is the name of this type of tape medium/device. It is referenced from the
tapetype option in the main part of the config file.
The tapetype options and values are:


  comment string
      Default: none. A comment string describing this set of tape information.

  filemark int
      Default: 1 kbytes. How large a file mark (tape mark) is, measured in
      kbytes. If the size is only known in some linear measurement (e.g.
      inches), convert it to kbytes using the device density.

  length int
      Default: 2000 kbytes. How much data will fit on a tape.
      Note that this value is only used by Amanda to schedule which backups
      will be run. Once the backups start, Amanda will continue to write to a
      tape until it gets an error, regardless of what value is entered for
      length (but see the section OUTPUT DRIVERS in the amanda(8) manpage for
      exceptions).

  blocksize int
      Default: 32 kbytes. How much data will be written in each tape record
      expressed in KiloBytes. The tape record size (= blocksize) can not be
      reduced below the default 32 KBytes. The parameter blocksize can only be
      raised if Amanda was compiled with the configure option --with-
      maxtapeblocksize=N set with "N" greater than 32 during configure.

  readblocksize int
      Default: (from configure --with-maxtapeblocksize). How much data will be
      read in each tape record expressed in KiloBytes. Some hardware require a
      value not too large, and some require it to be equal to the blocksize. It
      is useful if you configured amanda with a big --with-maxtapeblocksize and
      your hardware don't work with a value that big.

  file-pad boolean
      Default: true. If true, every record, including the last one in the file,
      will have the same length. This matches the way Amanda wrote tapes prior
      to the availability of this parameter. It may also be useful on devices
      that only support a fixed blocksize.
      Note that the last record on the tape probably includes trailing null
      byte padding, which will be passed back to gzip, compress or the restore
      program. Most programs just ignore this (although possibly with a
      warning).
      If this parameter is false, the last record in a file may be shorter than
      the block size. The file will contain the same amount of data the dump
      program generated, without trailing null byte padding. When read, the
      same amount of data that was written will be returned.

  speed int
      Default: 200 bps. How fast the drive will accept data, in bytes per
      second. This parameter is NOT currently used by Amanda.

  lbl-templ string
      A PostScript template file used by amreport to generate labels. Several
      sample files are provided with the Amanda sources in the example
      directory. See the amreport(8) man page for more information.

In addition to options, another tapetype name may be entered, which makes this
tapetype inherit options from another tapetype. For instance, the only
difference between a DLT4000 tape drive using Compact-III tapes and one using
Compact-IV tapes is the length of the tape. So they could be entered as:

  define tapetype DLT4000-III {
      comment "DLT4000 tape drives with Compact-III tapes"
      length 12500 mbytes         # 10 Gig tapes with some compression
      filemark 2000 kbytes
      speed 1536 kps
  }
  define tapetype DLT4000-IV {
      DLT4000-III
      comment "DLT4000 tape drives with Compact-IV tapes"
      length 25000 mbytes         # 20 Gig tapes with some compression
  }


INTERFACE SECTION

The amanda.conf file may define multiple types of network interfaces. The
information is entered in an interface section, which looks like this:

  define interface name {
      interface-option interface-value
      ...
  }

name is the name of this type of network interface. It is referenced from the
disklist file.
Note that these sections define network interface characteristics, not the
actual interface that will be used. Nor do they impose limits on the bandwidth
that will actually be taken up by Amanda. Amanda computes the estimated
bandwidth each file system backup will take based on the estimated size and
time, then compares that plus any other running backups with the limit as
another of the criteria when deciding whether to start the backup. Once a
backup starts, Amanda will use as much of the network as it can leaving
throttling up to the operating system and network hardware.
The interface options and values are:


  comment string
      Default: none. A comment string describing this set of network
      information.

  use int
      Default: 300 Kbps. The speed of the interface in Kbytes per second.

In addition to options, another interface name may be entered, which makes this
interface inherit options from another interface. At the moment, this is of
little use.

AUTHOR

James da Silva, <jds@amanda.org>: Original text
Stefan G. Weichinger, <sgw@amanda.org>, maintainer of the Amanda-documentation:
XML-conversion, major update, splitting

SEE ALSO

amanda(8), amanda-client.conf(5), amcrypt(8), aespipe(1),
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prev     Up                 Next
amanda  Home  amanda-client.conf

