
                           amfetchdump
Prev  Chapter 36. The Amanda Manual Pages.  Next

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name

amfetchdump  extract backup images from multiple Amanda tapes.

Synopsis

amfetchdump [-pcClawns] [-d device] [-O directory] [-i logfile] [-b blocksize]
config hostname [ disk [ date [ level [ hostname [...] ] ] ] ] [ -o |
configoption ]*

DESCRIPTION

Amfetchdump pulls one or more matching dumps from tape or from the holding
disk, handling the reassembly of multi-tape split dump files as well as any
tape autochanger operations.
It will automatically use the logs created by amdump(8) to locate available
dumps on tape, in the same way that the find feature of amadmin(8) lists
available dumps. If these logs are unavailable, it can search tape-by-tape to
find what it needs, and can generate new logs to serve as an emergency tape
inventory.
The hostname, diskname, datestamp, and level dump pattern-matching works as in
amrestore(8), with the added requirement that at minimum a hostname must be
specified when not in inventory mode.
Unless -p is used, backup images are extracted to files in the current
directory named:
hostname.diskname.datestamp.dumplevel

OPTIONS



  -p
      Pipe exactly one complete dump file to stdout, instead of writing the
      file to disk. This will restore only the first matching dumpfile (where
      "first" is determined by the dump log search facility).

  -d device
      Restore from this tape device instead of the default.

  -O directory
      Output restored files to this directory, instead of to the current
      working directory.

  -c
      Compress output, fastest method available.

  -C
      Compress output, smallest file size method available.

  -l
      Leave dumps in the compressed/uncompressed state in which they were found
      on tape. By default, amfetchdump will automatically uncompress when
      restoring.

  -a
      Assume that all tapes are already available, via tape changer or
      otherwise, instead of prompting the operator to ensure that all tapes are
      loaded.

  -i filename
      Generate an inventory of all dumps "seen" on the tapes we search, for
      later use as a log.

  -w
      Wait to put split dumps together until all chunks have been restored.
      Normally, amfetchdump will attempt to read pieces of a split file from
      tape in order, so that it can assemble them simply by appending each file
      to the first. This option disables the appending behavior, and instead
      restores each piece as an individual file and reassembles them only after
      all have been restored.

      Note

      This requires at least double the size of your dump in free disk space,
      in order to build the final assembled dumpfile.
      This behavior is implicitly invoked in circumstances where knowing the
      location of all dumps on tape in advance is not possible, such as when
      you are restoring without log files.

  -n
      Do not reassemble split dump files at all, just restore each piece as an
      individual file.

  -s
      Do not fast-forward straight to needed files on tape. This will slow down
      most restores substantially. Only use this option if your tape drive does
      not properly support the fast-forward operation.

  -b blocksize
      Force a particular block size when reading from tapes. This value will
      usually be autodetected, and should not normally need to be set.

  -o configoption
      See the "CONFIGURATION OVERWRITE" section in amanda(8).


EXAMPLES

All the examples here assume your configuration is called SetA.
Here's a simple case, restoring all known dumps of the host vanya to the
current working directory.

$ amfetchdump SetA vanya
A more likely scenario involves restoring a particular dump from a particular
date. We'll pipe this one to GNU-tar as well, to automatically extract the
dump.

$ amfetchdump -p SetA vanya /home 20051020 | gtar -xvpf -
In a situation where all of our dump logs have been wiped out, we could also
use amfetchdump to inventory our tapes and recreate an imitation of those logs,
which we'll send to stdout for casual perusal.

$ amfetchdump -i - SetA
Note that you can specify a restore while in inventory mode, and amfetchdump
will continue searching for more dumps from this host even after successfully
restoring a dump, inventorying all the while. If your backup searcher has been
trashed, this is a handy way to recover what you have.

$ amfetchdump -i /var/amanda/log SetA backupserver

CAVEATS

Amfetchdump is dependent on accessing your server's config, tape changer, and
(normally) dump logs. As such, it's not necessarily the most useful tool when
those have all been wiped out and you desperately need to pull things from your
tape. Pains have been taken to make it as capable as possible, but for
seriously minimialist restores, look to amrestore(8) or dd(8) instead.

AUTHOR

John Stange, <building@nap.edu>, National Academies Press
Ian Turner, <ian@zmanda.com>: XML-conversion

SEE ALSO

amanda(8), amadmin(8), amrestore(8), tar(1) restore(8)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prev     Up      Next
amdump  Home  amflush

