
                              amlabel
Prev  Chapter 36. The Amanda Manual Pages.  Next

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name

amlabel  label an Amanda tape

Synopsis

amlabel [-f ] config label [ slot | slot ] [ -o | configoption ]*

DESCRIPTION

All Amanda tapes must be pre-labeled before they are used. Amanda verifies the
label in amdump and amflush before writing to make sure the proper tape is
loaded.
Amlabel writes an Amanda label on the tape in the device specified by the
amanda.conf file in /usr/local/etc/amanda/config. Label may be any string that
does not contain whitespace and that matches the amanda.conf labelstr regular
expression option. It is up to the system administrator to define a naming
convention.
Amlabel appends the new tape to the tapelist file so it will be used by Amanda
before it reuses any other tapes. When you amlabel multiple tapes, they will be
used in the order you amlabel them.
Amlabel will not write the label if the tape contains an active Amanda tape or
if the label specified is on an active tape. The -f (force) flag bypasses these
verifications.
An optional slot may be specified after the tape label. If a tape changer is in
use, amlabel will label the tape in the specified slot instead of the currently
loaded tape.
See the amanda(8) man page for more details about Amanda.

OPTIONS



  -o configoption
      See the "CONFIGURATION OVERWRITE" section in amanda(8).


EXAMPLE

Write an Amanda label with the string "DMP000" on the tape loaded in the device
named in the tapedev option in /usr/local/etc/amanda/daily/amanda.conf:

  % amlabel daily DMP000

Label the tape in slot 3 of the currently configured tape changer with the
string "DMP003":

  % amlabel daily DMP003 slot 3


MESSAGES



  label label doesn't match labelstr str
      Label label on the command line does not match the labelstr regular
      expression str from amanda.conf.

  label label already on a tape
      Label label is already listed as an active Amanda tape.

  no tpchanger specified in path , so slot command invalid
      The command line has the slot parameter but the amanda.conf file in path
      does not have a tape changer configured.

  reading label label, tape is in another amanda configuration
      This tape appears to be a valid Amanda tape, but label does not match
      labelstr for this configuration so it is probably part of a different
      Amanda configuration.

  reading label label, tape is active
      Tape label appears to already be part of this Amanda configuration and
      active, i.e. has valid data on it.

  no label found, are you sure tape is non-rewinding?
      While checking that the label was written correctly, amlabel got an error
      that might be caused by mis-configuring Amanda with a rewinding tape
      device name instead of a non-rewinding device name for tape.


AUTHOR

James da Silva, <jds@amanda.org>: Original text
Stefan G. Weichinger, <sgw@amanda.org>, maintainer of the Amanda-documentation:
XML-conversion

SEE ALSO

amanda(8) amdump(8) amflush(8)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prev        Up   Next
amgetconf  Home  ammt

